Terraform is an open source infrastructure as code software tool.
It facilitates the replacement of
manual provisioning and the configuration process with code,
saving time and money.
Terraform was developed in
the Go language by a company called HashiCorp about six years ago,
and it has recently gained wide acceptance and adoption in production environments,
and mostly at tech forward companies that can
afford to attract and pay talented engineers,
to interpret and condense their entire infrastructure,
tens of thousands of servers and services globally into terraform files and modules.
Terraform code is written in HashiCorp configuration language or HCL.
A structured configuration language that is human and machine readable,
for use of the command line,
and primarily for IT automation.
Terraform unifies the view of your Cloud resources in
a file or a group of files organized into modules,
and Terraform is Cloud neutral,
meaning the API provides does not let the user to any one particular Cloud provider.
Code written for Terraform is portable,
and with some small auditable changes,
can be modified to recreate infrastructure quickly in multiple Cloud environments.
Now, Terraform is not exactly an introductory Cloud architecture topic.
It is easy to learn.
So this introductory lesson is important because infrastructure
as code is such as sought-after skill in modern cloud environments.
It's important for you to be familiar with what it is,
how it works, and why it's so powerful.
Architects with Terraform expertise are in high demand.
So I would encourage you to continue learning about infrastructure as code,
as a supplement to your current Cloud studies in career aspirations.